A few years ago, I was working on a large project
for an international company making software for smart cars.
The development team was doing amazing work and making really great progress.
Very few bugs and rework items.
From the development team's perspective,
we thought the client was loving what we were doing, and why not?
We were cranking this application out.
But in meetings, we found that the client was not happy at all.
The client said we were doing
shoddy work and that his deadlines were constantly slipping.
After some research, we found out that the deployments were getting messed up,
which caused a lot of bugs.
To be fair, the deployment process was really hairy.
It took a team of OPS Engineers around four hours to deploy completely.
They followed a very detailed deployment checklist
and it really seemed on top of their game,
very knowledgeable and skilled.
But even with all of that,
they didn't have what it took to deploy flawlessly.
There was always something not quite right.
We decided to all work together and add
some deployment jobs to our already Stellar CI pipeline.
We used Infrastructure as Code to create and control instances.
We used configuration management tools to provision our virtual machines.
We baked the entire deployment checklist into
code and automated everything down to the Slack message at the end.
After two or three deployments,
we started noticing the client's demeanor change.
He started showing more and more confidence in our team.
In a short time, everybody was happy.
We felt like we were a well oiled machine again.
It doesn't matter how great your code is or how perfectly you pull off a daily stand up.
If the client can't get value out of what you delivered,
is as if you never delivered it in the first place.
In this lesson, we're going to talk about continuous deployment,
and how to whip your delivery system into shape with automation.
We're going to get some understanding around
configuration management tools so that you can be more tool agnostic.
We're going to design an Ansible Playbook
together so that you can do that more effectively on your own.
We're going to learn to control remote machines with Play Books.
We're going to build an ansible inventory file so that we can
support our automation in CI/CD.
We're going to build various deployment related jobs including infrastructure creation,
provisioning, artifact delivery, smoke testing,
rollbacks, and production promotion.
Are you ready? Let's get moving.